# Community Leadership Summit (ATO)
## Raleigh, NC 2025

The Community Leadership Summit (CLS) is a **free** event that's put on by All
Things Open, at the Raleigh Convention Center in North Carolina. There are
several other free events that are co-located at the convention center on the
same day:

- Open Source Accessibility Summit
- Inclusion and Diversity Summit

These events run concurrently, but you can bounce around between them freely if
you find discussions in all summits that you wish to attend.  

---

The CLS was a fantasic event, a bazaar for exchanging knowledge, ideas, and
experience.  

## When I arrived...

I walked into the door and saw their check-in process. They have a row of 
tablets set up, where you can either enter your name or scan your QR code 
(provided when you get your ticket) to check in. Once you submit, an ID is 
automatically printed at the check-in booth. The volunteer attaches your badge
to a lanyard (provided by Google), and hands it to you with a smile. The entire 
process was quick and efficient. I'd expect nothing less from a great group of 
talented engineers.  

After checking in, I started walking the halls of the convention center. I saw 
all of the sponsors setting up their booths. The actual paid conference spans 
over Sunday and Monday (Oct 12,13) 2025, the two days following the free events.

The energy in the convention center was bustling, preparing for the big event
that starts tomorrow. From the moment you check in and start walking the halls, 
you can see booths for RedHat, CIQ (representing Rocky Linux, Warewulf, etc.), 
Chainguard, the Open Source Initiative, and Cloudinary, to name a few.  

## The Schedule

The schedule for the community leadership summit is determined in the morning.
People suggest ideas for topics to discuss, and the schedule is built upon those ideas.  

This is a great method for determining the scedule, in my opinion. It allows
the attendees to have a voice in what the discussions are about, allowing them
to further their own research on specific topics and exchange ideas with
others.  

I checked in after the schedule had been determined, so I had to find the board
on which they posted which sessions are happening in which rooms.  

## The Sessions

I attended several sessions, some about joining communities, getting more 
involved with communities, some about content creation and new AI tooling. 

The first discussion I attended was was a discussion about students **getting 
into Open Source**, and the challenges they may face.

The second was a discussion on leveraging AI to enhance your social media
presence to increase engagement and generate content for your users.  

The third was a discussion on content creation. This was not specific to tech
content, although we did have a popular tech content creator (LearnLinuxTV) who
shared his experience in getting into content creation.

The fourth was a discussion on getting involved with communities and the
challenges associated with that process. We shared our stories of *wanting* to
get involved with communities but being unable to, as well as success stories
where we were able to successfully get involved in a community we wanted to be
a part of.  

There were a few other discussions around AI tooling and community in general.
This event is a great way to gain insight into community, both as a member of a
community and a community leader.  

All of these discussions are done in a round-table, discourse format, allowing
everyone to have a voice and participate in the discussion.  

---

## Drawbacks

Unfortunately, due to space limitations, it was necessary that two sessions 
be held in the same room.  

If you were sitting towards the back in some of the sessions that were sharing 
a room, it could be extremely difficult to hear most of the discourse. 

If they could have set up some sort of dividers to isolate the sound from each
of the sessions, it could have been much more engaging for those who didn't get
a front-row seat.  


## My Thoughts on the ATO CLS 

The sheer insight of the ideas exchanged here is worth the trip, whether you're
local to Raleigh or surrounding areas, or from somewhere else.

Being in a position where you can be part of discussions with long-time 
industry professionals from RedHat, Google, Apache, and long-term maintainers 
of big open-source projects, allows you to bridge the gap between `<you>` and `<them>`.  

It reinforces the idea that we are all just people with a passion for
technology, innovation, and technological progress.  

This also allows you to gain insight into what these large companies and/or
large projects are doing. What tools they're using, what ideas they have, what
type of teams they have for certain tasks.  

---

#cls2025

