# Session 5

## Discourse on AI
Using AI for development.  


Using AI to create your brand.

- Use AI to mock up differnt visuals of what you want for your logo.  
    - Colors, font size.

 Can tell if you're doing this from a long time if the person is using AI for
 the logo itself. Don't use the direct image generated by ChatGPT or other AI. 
 Sae with Text generated things. Don't just copyasta chatGPT text and use it in
 your blog posts or social media posts.   

Its good for "future-casting", strategizing.  

## issue
Again, two sessions in a single room, makes it impossible to hear most of the
conversation.  

## Tools
- Gemma: Can use for slides. So you can generate a slide or PDF.  
    - Good for presentations
- Gemini Gem. Like GPT.  
- linear.app - Good for deep research.  
    - Can ask it a prompt, it will come back with a dictionary with of feedback
    . Can highlight over feedback and it will present its source.  
        - Will both take you to the website and **highlight** the section that
          it used for the response.  

- Claude: Say "Use this writing style" and it will generate the thing in the
  voice that you give it.  [:w

- Slack. The slack community for Apache Rails(?) is mature. 
    - They've implemented a lot of AI bots for slack that can be directly
      integrated with Slack, can be used to integrate for, example, a
      "Questions" channel.  
    - Allows you to save resources on the Customer Service side of code.  
    - Can enable AI Bots on PRs, Issues, and Discussions.  
    - Apache software foundation does not want LLM to be the autohor of commits.  
        - provedance and licensing (this is the reason)
        - The LLM could spit out code that's licensed (since it steals code
          form all over github)

- There is a "shame" aspect of using AI to use social media or blog posts
    - It's not "mine"
    - Others can lose respect for the content that's very clearly AI generated.  


- Do you always need to occupy every single patform?
    - FIND YOUR PLATFORM. Stick with it. Build your brand/identity with that.  
    - You don't need to be on "everything"
    - This can acutally **reduce engagment a lot**.  
    - When you're more intentionally generating content for a specific
      platform, you tend to get more engagement.  
    - AI avatars.
        - You said you use a model to generate the AI avatar and edit the video
          for you, which model to you use??
    - As a content creator, you need to have a niche.  
    - Important to connect with people of the younger generation.  
    - Focus on the part of the generation that has a longer attentio span, or
      target those with shorter attention span? There's a range here.  

## ideas

ProLUG Newsletters. Blog opsts. Writeups.  
- Identify age demographic you're looking to target
- Identify the socioeconomic area you're looking to target.

D(e?)Fusion Box
Ai grok, Imagines 
SECAR
gammai
Dscript/Escript (spelling???)?? 
Eleven (AI avatars etc[:w
Ideation?? 





