# All Things Open (2025)
## Raleigh, NC

The All Things Open conference is a tech conference in Raleigh, North
Carolina, USA.  

It's held at the Raleigh Convention Center, a large space dedicated to hosting
large events with many ballrooms and public speaking rooms.  

There are several thousand attendees each year, 2025 marks the 13th anniversary
of the All Things Open coference.  


## Speakers

Industry professionals from all over the world are invited to to speak on
topics in which they're considered experts.

There are several points of focus, and as such, the organizers have presented
"tracks" that attendees can focus on. They're not fixed, but they do provide a
guideline as to what talks one may be interested depending on their roles or
interests.  

There are several tracks including ones for developers, infrastructure
engineers, database administrators, and AI/ML focused professionals, to name a
few.  

---

Many of the speakers that are presenting are long-time industry professionals
from big-name companies (e.g., RedHat, Tailscale, AlmaOS, Zabbix, etc.).  


## Booths

Vendors from many companies and projects are afforded booths within the
convention center. They have the chance to advertise their product in-person,
and give give away "swag" to attendees (e.g., t-shirts, stickers, buttons,
hats, etc.).  

This is a great marketplace for exploring solutions that you may want to try
out yourself, or perhaps you'll find a solution that you can use
professionally. It's essentially an open marketplace of ideas and knowledge.

## Community
The community is incredibly welcomeing. This was my first ever tech conference,
and the welcome I received from the other attendees was nothing short of
awesome. 

Everyone, attendees, volunteers, and speakers are all passionate about 
technology, which could be a refreshing change of atmosphere if you come from a 
corporate entity with perhaps a somewhat stifling work environment. 





