# Community Leadership Summit

The Community Leadership Summit (CLS) is a **free** event that's put on by All
Things Open, at the Raleigh Convention Center in North Carolina.  

This is a fantasic event, a bazaar for exchanging both knowledge and ideas.  

## When I arrived...

I walked into the door and saw their check-in process. They have a row of 
tablets set up, where you can either enter your name or scan your QR code 
(provided when you get your ticket) to check in. Once you submit, an ID is 
automatically printed at the check-in booth. The volunteer attaches your badge
to a lanyard (provided by Google), and hands it to you with a smile. The entire 
process was quick and efficient. I'd expect nothing less from a great group of 
talented engineers.  

After checking in, I started walking the halls. I saw all of the sponsors 
setting up their booths. The actual paid conference spans over Sunday and 
Monday (Oct 12,13) 2025.

The energy in the convention center was bustling, preparing for the big event
that starts tomorrow. From the moment you check in and start walking the halls, 
you can see booths for RedHat, CIQ (leveraging Rocky Linux, Warewulf, etc.), 
Chainguard, the Open Source Initiative, and Cloudinary, to name a few.  

## The Schedule

The schedule for the community leadership summit is determined in the morning.
People suggest ideas for topics to discuss, and the schedule is built upon those ideas.  

This is a great method for determining the scedule, in my opinion. It allows
the attendees to have a voice in what the discussions are about, allowing them
to further their own research on specific topics and exchange ideas with
others.  



## The Sessions

I've attened two sessions so far. 

The first one was was a discussion about students **getting into Open Source**.

The second was a discussion on leveraging AI to enhance your social media
presence to increase engagement and generate content for your users.  

All of these discussions are done in a round-table discourse format, allowing
everyone to have a voice and participate in the discussion.  

---

Unfortunately, due to the space limitation, it was necessary that two sessions 
to be held in the same room. I was sitting in the back for both of these 
discussions and that made it extremely difficult to hear most of the discourse. 

However, what I did hear was valuable.  


## My Thoughts on the ATO CLS 

The sheer insight of the ideas exchanged here is worth the trip, whether you're
local to Raleigh or from somewhere else.

Being in a position where you can be part of discussions with long-time 
industry professionals from RedHat, Google, Apache, and long-term maintainers 
of big Open Source projects, allows you to bridge the gap between `<you>` and `<them>`.  

It reinforces the idea that we are all just people with a passion for
technology, innovation, and technological progress.  

This also allows you to gain insight into what these large companies and/or
large projects are doing. What tools they're using, what ideas they have, what
type of teams they have for certain tasks.  

---

The attendees have all been **very** friendly, regardless of their background
or occupation.  




#cls2025


